{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri-Bold;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri-Italic;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li720\lin720}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li1440\lin1440}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li2160\lin2160}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li2880\lin2880}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li3600\lin3600}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li4320\lin4320}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li5040\lin5040}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li5760\lin5760}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li360\lin360}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li1080\lin1080}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li1800\lin1800}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li2520\lin2520}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li3240\lin3240}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li3960\lin3960}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li4680\lin4680}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li5400\lin5400}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li720\lin720}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li1440\lin1440}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li2160\lin2160}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li2880\lin2880}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li3600\lin3600}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li4320\lin4320}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li5040\lin5040}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fs22\b0\i0\fi0\li5760\lin5760}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li360\lin360}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li1080\lin1080}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li1800\lin1800}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li2520\lin2520}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li3240\lin3240}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li3960\lin3960}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li4680\lin4680}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f1\fs22\b1\i0\fi0\li5400\lin5400}{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 DRAFT RESPONSE TO CANADA\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92S FUNDAMENTAL SCIENCE REVIEW FROM THE CANADIAN ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Three main messages:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	1.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Discovery grants are too low. The model is excellent though. Fosters innovation via programs rather than projects.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	2.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 CSA funding for space astronomy should be increased.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	3.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 We should aspire to the be at the top run of world astronomy.}
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	1.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Is the federal funding ecosystem meeting the needs of the Canadian research community? As the needs change, is the ecosystem able to adapt and accommodate?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Section 8.2 of the MTR discusses these issues at great length. The main conclusion is that the federal funding ecosystem has provided access to the ambitious infrastructure needed for Canada to remain leaders in ground-based astronomy (principally by funding the the Thirty Meter Telescope) though the future is less secure for space-based astronomy because of uncertainties in the direction of the Canadian Space Agency (elaborated on below). The main issue facing the community is that the funding ecosystem is not meeting the needs of individual researchers who need to exploit this infrastructure. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 NSERC Discovery Grants for individual researchers failed to keep pace and are reaching problematic levels. Quoting from Section 8.2.2 the MTR:}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 One of our main findings and concerns are that the funding for astronomy that is the responsibility of NSERC has declined in the past five years since LRP2010 from a total of $11.8M to $11.0M. Instead, the $11.8M should have grown into $12.8M to keep pace with inflation from 2010 to 2015. The average annual \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Discovery Grant\u8221\'94 per researcher has declined in 2010 dollars to $34.1K when inflation is accounted for. This >10% decline has had significant impacts on the abilities of several researchers to support their graduate students and maintain their research output.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 It is worth noting that a failure to increase funding spills through into a failure to provide cost of living increases for the graduate students supported by these funding mechanisms.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The loss of the NSERC Special Research Opportunities program and the suspension of the MRS program has been a major blow to astronomy. XXX FILL IN MORE HERE XXX}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 An area of special concern is funding for space-based astronomy. Funding for space-based astronomy is reaching the lowest levels we have seen since pre-2000 era. Arguably, funding is reaching levels that many consider to be on the verge of ending significant participation of Canadian groups in major space-based missions. Quoting from Section 8.2.2 of the MTR:}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 The potential for funding new space-based facilities, even at the level of concept studies, has not evolved as expected in 2010. One of the highest priorities of LRP2010 was significant involvement in a major space based mission (EUCLID, WFIRST, or CASTOR) primarily to investigate dark energy, at a level around half that expended on JWST. This has not happened, largely because the CSA budget, whilst not appreciably shrinking, has been forced to cover cost overruns associated with the RADARSAT Constellation mission, that are estimated to be several hundred million dollars (precise figures are unknown at this time). When costs associated with JWST are removed, the annual budget associated with the remaining space missions averages just under $7M (a summary of CSA annual budgets by mission, which excludes studies, is provided in Appendix C). It is clear that any significant aspirations for space astronomy requires the CSA budget for space astronomy to at least double, and funding Canadian-led missions clearly goes beyond the current funding envelope.}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 In summary, while the astronomy community is grateful for the funding it has received (and which it has put to exceptional good use, as noted below) there continues to be enormous need for further investment, both at project and personnel levels.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 We encourage interested members of the panel to read section 8.2 of the MTR for a more detailed discussion of these issues.}
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	2.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Are you currently receiving (or have you received) funding for your research from federal sources? Tell us about your experience including information about the program and size of the award; the award and stage(s) in your career when you received funding; relative changes over time in the amount of any federal funding you obtained; flexibility of the program; and whether you had to seek funds from elsewhere to fully fund your project. How could your experience be improved?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Astronomy is funded through a number of channels, NRC, NSERC, CFI and CSA being the four key vehicles. Individuals receive their primary support via NSERC Discovery Grants, which have been declining (per researcher). As noted earlier, the loss of the Special Research Opportunities program and then the suspension of the MRS programme has been particularly acute and has contributed to lower effective support levels (as discussed in the answers provided for question 1).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 A significant number of questions remain about the new conference model, especially given that major cuts to well funded individuals is now putting graduate students at risk (some universities will only now guarantee funding to students on a year to year basis as NSERC Discovery Grant success rates have become volatile). It is important to remember that the Canadian system remains programme rather than project oriented. Any significant tail-off in funding of DGs would be better phased over an 18 24-month time period rather than being a sudden cut so that personnel can be given chances to find alternative employment in reasonable time frames. Omit or consolidate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	3.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Are you currently receiving funding for your research from sources other than the federal government? If so, what are other sources of funding available to you? Please comment on the process for obtaining the funding and competitiveness of this funding source.}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 While there are a few small institutions that have benefits from philanthropic support of astronomy (McGill and the University of Toronto being strong examples) most research funding is dominated by federal sources. Omit or consolidate.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0   }
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	4.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Could the application processes for funding be improved? If so, what would you suggest? Are there issues with the matching programs associated with various funding programs? If so, how could this be improved?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 At the CFI-level, matching funds have usually been able to be found from provinces, although some programmes in smaller provinces (e.g. Nova Scotia) face significant challenges in gaining provincial match for significant investment in fundamental science. Omit or consolidate.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	5.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Does the federal science funding community (e.g. the granting councils, the CFI agencies or organizations that distribute funds supporting investigator-led research) consult the research community to ensure that their programs are aligned to the changing needs of researchers? If so, how? If not, should it and how should it?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 This is an acutely political question that speaks to whether something close to a Haldane Principle should guide science funding.  The decade-long focus on applied science and economic outcomes that shaped many new funding streams at NSERC (e.g. Engage) have had little benefit for astronomy, despite a number of instrumentation projects having close working relationships with the private sector. Indeed, as highlighted in the DoyleTech report to the NRC on large facility R&D and its potential for economic gain, there are potentially significant benefits associated with the funding of astronomy.\line }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 As described in the MTR Section XXX, Ultimately, the impression of most senior personnel involved in astronomy is that science policy has been set in a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93top-down\u8221\'94 fashion for the past decade. While connections to agencies are still in place, it is notable to the astronomy community that:\line }
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs22\b0\i0	a)	}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 NSERC refused to provide detailed breakdowns of success rates in astronomy following the transition to the conference model, this data had to be requested via Freedom of Information Requests.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs22\b0\i0	b)	}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 As previously noted, the Agency Committee for Canadian Astronomy was an effective body for negotiating a number of issues related to astronomy funding from 2000-10, but ceased to meet in 2011.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs22\b0\i0	c)	}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Contact with government officials became increasingly difficult.}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 All of these issues speak to a science management model that viewed it largely as a tap to be turned on and off in support of short-term viewpoints. The dangers of this are manifest \endash  deep fundamental research has a long term payoff horizon (making a contribution to the Solow Residual in economic theory) and the effects of its neglect are rarely felt immediately. The returns from fundamental science are also a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93long tail\u8221\'94 distribution, rare examples of discovery that are unpredictable in nature often have unanticipated benefits. Few would have thought that the idea of sharing data in particle physics (World Wide Web) would lead to trillions of dollars in economic exchange. Or that processing out interference in radio astronomy observations would lead to billions having cheap mobile internet access (WIFI).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Many US commentators unfamiliar with the Canadian system have noted the lack of an NSF-like management system where individuals with extensive experience of applying for grants are brought in to manage programs within the NSF. Such a system would definitely build more confidence in Canada that the individuals engaged at the highest levels appreciate the challenges involved in the funding system. Arguably this goes beyond restricting communication and consultation processes.\line }
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	6.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Comment on the coordination between the programs being provided by the granting councils and other funding organizations, provinces, and/or amongst themselves. Are there areas for improvement?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 We again highlight the challenges faced by theThe astronomy community faces challenges due to the close involvement of the NRC in both research and facility operation. The CFI\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s cyberinfrastructure competition is a case in point. Two proposals were submitted, one including personnel from the NRC-operated Canadian Astronomy Data Centre (CADC) who are a core unit of the Canadian Advanced Network for Astronomy Research (CANFAR), and another cross-disciplinary proposal that did not. The CANFAR proposal was rejected by CFI for havingbecause of NRC personnelinvolvement, while the cross-disciplinary proposal was criticized for }{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 not}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0  }{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 including}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0  CANFAR (and ultimately was not funded). This is obviously a nightmarish \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Catch 22\u8221\'94 situation results from the close integration of NRC with other agencies that operate in the Canadian astronomy landscapethat the field is especially concerned by as \u8220\'93Big Data\u8221\'94 projects for astronomy take off in other countries (most notably the LSST development in the USA).  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The At a more general level, the lack of coordination between CFI and the provinces has posed a number of problems for Compute Canada funding. is also challenging and would beAstronomy would be better served if the CF I coordinated more closely at the policy level with the provinces. This has been especially acute in Compute Canada funding.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	7.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Is there a need for the federal government to improve the balance across funding elements (e.g.investments in principal researchers, funding of research staff and other direct costs of research, funding of infrastructure and equipment operations and maintenance, and reimbursement of indirect costs)? If so, how can this balance be achieved? What is the appropriate federal role in supporting infrastructure operating costs? Do CFI and granting councils programs work in a complementary fashion?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 As noted, the change in the Discovery Grant funding process to have less \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93inertia\u8221\'94 in funding levels places important personnel at risk, particularly graduate students. Some kind of support programme that addresses this issue would be helpful. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 <<need more>>}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	8.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Comment on career supporting funding versus project-based funding. What are the pros and cons of each structure? Should support structures be higher at the front end of careers and less so as they are established?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The change to conference model has had an impact on this with some younger researchers getting a rapid ramp-up to funding levels that we previously given to more senior personnel. At present relative to competing countries astronomy funding is low in Canada (roughly 50-70% lower on a per GDP basis, see LRP2010 for a detailed analysis). RE-EMPHASIZE NSERC DG. }
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	9.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 What should the balance be between funding risky, novel, or emerging research versus research with established lines of inquiry? Do current programs and review processes achieve the right balance?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 RE-EMPHASIZE NSERC DG. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 <<need more>>}
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	10.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 What should the balance be between funding research to meet government priorities and having research priorities determined by the research community? Do current programs and review processes achieve the right balance?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 As noted in early responses, this is largely a political question. Nonetheless, the vast majority of astronomy researchers will highlight that the many applied programmes that have been funded within NSERC, and the Science and Technology Strategy focusing on 4-5 applied areas has added a new layer of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93hoop jumping\u8221\'94 for fundamental science research. Painting fundamental science in the colour of applied science to gain funding is a game that helps neither the researchers seeking funding, nor the politicians attempting to set this policy.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 It has also created some significant schisms between researchers who receive funding from the new programmes vs those that do not. While arguably not true, there nonetheless has been a perception that fundamental scientists have become \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93second class\u8221\'94 in terms of their value to Canada.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	11.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Can you identify the peer-review processes (federal or otherwise) that you have participated in, either as an applicant or a reviewer? Do you have suggestions to improve the process in terms of rigour, fairness, and effectiveness?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 <<BOB this is for you>>}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 omit}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	12.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Do current federal programs encourage and support domestic collaboration?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The cancelling of the MRS programme has had a notable impact on national-level facilities. Indeed, we have observed a policy movement toward only fundamental international facilities (admittedly with some exceptions).Nonetheless, researchers are especially cognizant that the view a facility is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93National level\u8221\'94\u8221\'94 is now a derogatory term in the eyes of many at the funding councils.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	13.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 To what extent do you collaborate internationally and how important is this to your work? Is there sufficient flexibility in granting council or other funding programs for participation in international collaborations? Are there particular research areas where more emphasis on international collaboration is needed?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Astronomy is an exceptionally international science and essentially all the major facilities in which Canada has involvement are international collaborations. Indeed, given the costs associated with astronomy it is particularly difficult to envisage a future of the subject in which countries \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93go it alone\u8221\'94\u8221\'94, China may perhaps being the only country with financial resources, but they are still building personnel and technology resources. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 As such, astronomy naturally moves forward in an international sense. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	14.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Are current federal programs supporting the needs of multidisciplinary researchers? If not, how can the situation be improved? Does the funding ecosystem work collaboratively and effectively across disciplines?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 While there are some elements of astronomy that could be argued as multidisciplinary there are not, as yet, greatly significant concerns about funding avenues not being available due to specific subject areas failing to fall under the remit of funding councils.}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 15. Is current support for major science initiatives or \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94 including large international collaborations and facilities effectively meeting the needs of researchers? If not, how can this be improved?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Astronomy sits as one of the key examples of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94. TMT funding announced in 2015 is a high watermark for fundamental science investment in a single project in Canada. Given the importance of this issue, Section 8.1 of the MTR highlights the challenges associated with \u8220\'93governance\u8221\'94 of astronomy. The unique role that the NRC has in supporting astronomy facilities and research/development, makes this subject especially complex. For example, Canada Foundation for Innovation applications have been refused due to NRC Herzberg units being involved in projects (the nature of collaborations is such that specialist knowledge cannot be merely be excised).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 However, aside from governance issues, the difficulty of gaining funding for TMT is a classic example of the challenges faced by fields seeking funding for large projects. Quoting from the MTR:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 Yet, the challenges involved in negotiating a share in TMT clearly demonstrate why the overall governance of astronomy in Canada needs improvement. The process played out over a number of years and involved CASCA, ACURA, a coalition of representatives of industry and academia, NRC, and of course, the astronomy community.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i1 In fact, there was very little \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93process\u8221\'94 \endash  it was quite ad hoc and changed in response to evolving situations. Both from the perspective of the community and funding agencies, the process would have been better facilitated if there had been a central body that was clearly recognized by all stakeholders as representing the interests of the entire community, while being respected in a policy advice role\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs20\b0\i0  The Coalition for Canadian Astronomy fulfilled some of this role during the TMT era but, as a small committee formed by mutual agreement of the three organizations involved, it is not an ideal candidate to play an expanded long-term role.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 . This central body would oversee the development of a coherent, strategic plan for astronomy and be able to respond to requests from the government or other organizations about priorities. One possibility to consider might be to utilize the proposed NRC Herzberg Advisory Board, discussed below, for this purpose. Another possibility might be for ACURA to evolve to take on this role. However, serious consideration should also be given to the possibility that astronomy in Canada might be better served by an entirely new national organization.}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 With respects to addressing the lack of an obvious channel for addressing \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94 the MTR states:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 Concerns over strategic decision-making for \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94 facilities have been voiced across multiple fields, and astronomy is especially distinct, given the fundamental role the NRC plays in the operation of government observatories primarily for university-based researchers. In this regard, the Agency Committee for Canadian Astronomy has previously been a highly useful vehicle for establishing interagency collaboration, and there are current issues that it could meet to address. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i1 Further, international collaborations, facilities and the science they undertake, will all become increasingly complex. Navigating this mixture of policy and science, even domestically, is a challenge without well-framed procedures. A proper process of decision making and policy setting for \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94 in Canada is sorely needed.}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The Agency Committee for Canadian Astronomy was formed following the first LRP in 2000 to address inter-agency collaboration issues and the Presidential level. While highly productive when active, it has not met since 2011 and a number of critical issues have arisen that need to be addressed. While astronomy holds a unique position due to the nature of the NRCs involvement we nonetheless believe that all fields could benefit from the creation of a high level body to oversee the development of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\u8220\'93Big Science\u8221\'94 in Canada. Obviously the creation of such a body would, however, create much expectation given the immense number of ideas currently floating around in the Canadian scientific community. Giving these ideas a chance to grow is something we cannot afford }{\f2\fs22\b0\i1 not}{\f0\fs22\b0\i0  to do!}
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	15.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 What is the best way to fund areas of strategic interest such as emerging, transformative or potentially disruptive technologies, and/or areas of broader societal interest? Are granting councils well placed to fund/support these areas or are separate mechanisms required?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\fi-360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0	1.	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 17. Identify the unique barriers that the following groups face in obtaining support for investigator-led research. Do current programs address these barriers? What else could be done to address these barriers?}
\par\pard\plain \sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 a) students, trainees, and early career researchers}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 b) women}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 c) aboriginals and other underrepresented groups}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 18. Are there international programs, structures, models, or best practices that Canada should consider adopting? If so, please explain why these should be considered.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Note point about operation and personnel in funding council relative to the NSF model in the US (response 5).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 19. What should the vision be for Canadian science? If we imagine an even more successful future for Canadian science, what does success look like and how should it be measured?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 <<truthful but inappropriate deleted>>}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Keep this one short somehow.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 20. Are there any other issues or questions that you would like to raise and address?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Given the significant exercises in consultation that the government has undergone for the last 18 months, will the Science Review outline what the anticipated outcomes of this information gathering process are?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0}