{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Does the federal science funding community (e.g. the granting councils, the CFI agencies or organizations that distribute funds supporting investigator-led research) consult the research community to ensure that their programs are aligned to the changing needs of researchers? If so, how? If not, should it and how should it?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Answer:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\fs22 \cf0 This is an acutely political question that speaks to whether something close to a Haldane Principle should guide science funding.  The decade-long focus on applied science and economic outcomes that shaped many new funding streams at NSERC (e.g. Engage) have had little benefit for astronomy, despite a number of instrumentation projects having close working relationships with the private sector. Indeed, as highlighted in the DoyleTech report to the NRC on large facility R&D and its potential for economic gain, there are potentially significant benefits associated with the funding of astronomy.\uc0\u8232 \
As described in the MTR Section XXX, Ultimately, the impression of most senior personnel involved in astronomy is that science policy has been set in a \'93top-down\'94 fashion for the past decade. While connections to agencies are still in place, it is notable to the astronomy community that:\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 a)	NSERC refused to provide detailed breakdowns of success rates in astronomy following the transition to the conference model, this data had to be requested via Freedom of Information Requests.\
b)	As previously noted, the Agency Committee for Canadian Astronomy was an effective body for negotiating a number of issues related to astronomy funding from 2000-10, but ceased to meet in 2011.\
c)	Contact with government officials became increasingly difficult.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\cf0 \
All of these issues speak to a science management model that viewed it largely as a tap to be turned on and off in support of short-term viewpoints. The dangers of this are manifest \'96 deep fundamental research has a long term payoff horizon (making a contribution to the Solow Residual in economic theory) and the effects of its neglect are rarely felt immediately. The returns from fundamental science are also a \'93long tail\'94 distribution, rare examples of discovery that are unpredictable in nature often have unanticipated benefits. Few would have thought that the idea of sharing data in particle physics (World Wide Web) would lead to trillions of dollars in economic exchange. Or that processing out interference in radio astronomy observations would lead to billions having cheap mobile internet access (WIFI).
\f2 \uc0\u8232 }