{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 17. Identify the unique barriers that the following groups face in obtaining support for investigator-led research. Do current programs address these barriers? What else could be done to address these barriers?
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b a) students, trainees, and early career researchers
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b b) women
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b c) aboriginals and other underrepresented groups
\f1\b0 \
\
\
(a) Students and early career researchers are currently faced with unstable and relatively low levels of NSERC funding (especially at the PDF level). Many young scientists in tenure-track positions face additional challenges because families are typically started during the phase of one's career when tenure decisions are made. The nature of the granting system is such that it can be extraordinarily difficult to recover a healthy funding level after even short periods of diminished productivity brought on by family commitments. \
\
At present, downward pressure on NSERC grants is such that astrophysical researchers with grants of $40K or greater have a much greater probability of being cut than of being renewed at the same level or greater. Therefore students and PDFs funded from the NSERC grants of established researchers have a good likelihood of finding their funding imperilled if the supporting NSERC grant is up for renewal during their period of study or fellowship. At the other end of the spectrum, early career grants may be so small ($18K per year) that they are insufficient to fund even a single graduate student, particularly in provinces where no sources of provincial funding can offset such shifts. Students and PDFs can apply for NSERC grants, but the PDFs in particular can be applied for just once (the National Science Foundation in the United States allows an individual to apply up to four times until they become ineligible at four years past their PhD). In Canada NSERC PDFs last two years and are remunerated at a level of CDN$45K per year; In the United States, a National Science Foundation PDF provides three years of funding and US$69,000/year direct pay plus a US$31,000/year stipend which can be applied to research expenses. NSERC PDFs are simply not competitive. \
\
(b) and (c): The NSERC University Faculty Awards (UFA) program facilitated the hiring of women and aboriginal researchers into tenure track faculty positions in Canada, and in astrophysics it proved very successful in meeting its basic goals. This program was a component in the hiring of nearly 50% of the female faculty hires in astronomy in Canada. The UFA program was discontinued ten years ago when the evaluation committee recommended it be replaced by separate programs to encourage women and aboriginal Canadians into the science and engineering pipeline, and that efforts be focused at various other stages in the academic career ladder. In fact, no similar program has replaced the UFA program.\
\
\
\
\
\
}