{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Are you currently receiving (or have you received) funding for your research from federal sources? Tell us about your experience including information about the program and size of the award; the award and stage(s) in your career when you received funding; relative changes over time in the amount of any federal funding you obtained; flexibility of the program; and whether you had to seek funds from elsewhere to fully fund your project. How could your experience be improved?}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Astronomy is funded through a number of channels, NRC, NSERC, CFI and CSA being the four key vehicles. Individuals receive their primary support via NSERC Discovery Grants, which have been declining (per researcher). As noted earlier, the loss of the Special Research Opportunities program and then the suspension of the MRS program has been particularly acute and has contributed to lower effective support levels (as discussed in the answers provided for question 1).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A significant number of questions remain about the new conference model, especially given that major cuts to well funded individuals is now putting graduate students at risk (some universities will only now guarantee funding to students on a year to year basis as NSERC Discovery Grant success rates have become volatile). It is important to remember that the Canadian system remains program rather than project oriented. Any significant tail-off in funding of Discovery Grants would be better phased over an 18 24-month time period rather than being a sudden cut so that personnel can be given chances to find alternative employment in reasonable time frames. Omit or consolidate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0}